A **closed walk** is a walk whose staring and ending vertices are equal, i.e. a $u$ , $u$-walk. A trivial walk is a considered to be a closed walk.

A **trail** is a walk that does not repeat and edge. Being a trail does not guarantee being a path.

A **circuit** is a closed walk *that is also a trail*.

A **cycle** is a circuit with at least one edge where *the only repeated vertex is the start and the end vertex*.

An **odd cycle** is a cycle with an odd number of edges; and **even cycle** is a cycle with an even number of edges.

a $p$-cycle is a cycle with $p$ edges. A 1-cycle would be of the form $u$, $e$, $u$ where $e$ is a loop whose single endpoint is the vertex $u$. A 2-cycle would be of the form $u, e_1, v, e_2, u$. Here we have $u \neq v$ and $e_1 \neq e_2$.

It will turn out that there is a connection between evenness/oddness of cycles and bipartite graphs. I'll defer this to.

## Vertex connectedness

Given a graph $G$ and two vertices $u$ and $v$, we will say that $u$ and $v$ are **connected**, if there exists a $u, v$-walk in $G$. Necessarily, this implies the existence of a $u,v$-path in $G$.

We can write $u\~v$ when this happens.

Observations.

1. (Reflexivity) For any vertex $u$, $u\~u$. This is because the trivial $u,u$-walk exists.
2. (Symmetry) For any two vertices, if $u\~v$, then $v\~u$. We can achieve this by reversing the $u,v$-walk to produce the $v,u$-walk.
3. (Transitivity) For any three vertices $u$, $v$ and $w$, if $u\~v$ and $v\~w$ then $u\~w$. This is the because we can concatenate the $u,v$-walk with $v,w$-walk to produce a $u,w$-walk. (This is harder to do if we define connected using paths.)

Vertex connectedness (\~) is an equivalence relation.

